feat(mesh): add Mesh Terraform guide (#8553)
Kong/docs.konghq.com: app/_src/mesh/guides/create-a-service-mesh-using-kong-mesh-terraform-and-konnect.md

---
title: Create a service mesh using Kong Mesh, Terraform, and Konnect
---

{% assign KM_VERSION = "2.9.3" %}
{% assign TF_BETA_VERSION = "0.1.0" %}
{% assign TF_VERSION = "2.4.1" %}
{% assign TF_TIME_VERSION = "0.13.0" %}
{% assign TF_KUBERNETES_VERSION = "2.35.1" %}
{% assign TF_HELM_VERSION = "2.17.0" %}

## Introduction

> This guide explains how to create and manage Kong Mesh using Terraform and Konnect.

Author: ```suggestion
This guide explains how to create and manage {{site.mesh_product_name}} using Terraform and Konnect.
```

## Versions of the provider

### konnect

The `konnect` provider is the [General Availability](/mesh/{{page.release}}/availability-stages/#general-availability) version.
Features initially available in the beta version (`konnect-beta`) will move to the GA version (`konnect`) once they are stable and fully tested.

Below is an example of how to use the `konnect` provider in your Terraform configuration:

```hcl
terraform {
    required_providers {
        konnect = {
            source = "kong/konnect"
            version = "{{ TF_VERSION }}"
        }
    }
}
```

### konnect-beta

There is a [beta version](/availability-stages/#beta) of the provider called `konnect-beta` that has the latest features.

Currently, Mesh resources are available only in the beta provider, but they will be available in the `konnect` provider shortly.

Below is an example of how to use the `konnect-beta` provider in your Terraform configuration:

```hcl
terraform {
  required_providers {
    konnect-beta = {
      source  = "kong/konnect-beta"
      version = "{{ TF_BETA_VERSION }}"
    }
  }
}
```

### Usage in this guide

> In this guide we will use both the `konnect` and `konnect-beta` providers to demonstrate how to manage Kong Mesh resources using Terraform.

Author: ```suggestion
In this guide we will use both the `konnect` and `konnect-beta` providers to demonstrate how to manage {{site.mesh_product_name}} resources using Terraform.
```

```

should print:

```
NAMESPACE          NAME
kong-mesh-system   allow-all-wd5xx76vc44b498c
```

## Rotating the token

Instead of using `time_offset` resource you can use `time_rotating` resource to rotate the token every minute:

```hcl
resource "time_rotating" "example" {
  rotation_minutes = 1
}
```

Then, zone system account token needs updating to use that resource.
We're adding a 15 minutes offset to the rotation time to ensure the token is rotated before it expires:

```hcl
resource "konnect_system_account_access_token" "zone_system_account_token" {
  depends_on = [konnect_system_account.zone_system_account, time_rotating.rotate, time_rotating.rotate]
  account_id = konnect_system_account.zone_system_account.id
  expires_at = timeadd(time_rotating.rotate.rotation_rfc3339, "15m")
  name       = konnect_system_account.zone_system_account.name
}
```

{% tip %}
In production environment you should tune the rotation and offset time to your needs.
{% endtip %}

That will cause the token to be rotated if, a minute passes `terraform apply`.
If you execute `terraform apply` immediate after you'll see:

```
No changes. Your infrastructure matches the configuration.
```

> Buf if you run it after a minute you will see zone system account token recreated and kubernetes secret updated:

Author: ```suggestion
But, if you run it after a minute you will see zone system account token recreated and Kubernetes secret updated:
```
